Now, my theme is
“Tap Into ‘the Power Beyond What Is Normal.’”
Jehovah God is the original Source
of all the power that exists in the universe.
Isaiah 40:26 speaks
of Jehovah’s “vast dynamic energy
and . . . awe-inspiring power.”
And we know that aeons ago,
he used this tremendous power
to create his only-begotten Son,
who became
a tremendous source of power himself.
But then using him as “a master worker,”
Jehovah brought into existence
numerous other sources of power
—both animate and inanimate.
Now, we humans were made in God’s image.
And so one of our main qualities,
just like Jehovah, is power.
We can use that power in a good way
or a bad way.
Now, Jehovah tells us:
‘If you want to use it in a good way,
‘I will help you.
‘You can tap into me,
‘the most powerful Source of help
in the universe,
‘and I will help you
use your power for good.
I will give you
“power beyond what is normal.”’
—2 Corinthians 4:7.
But now, if you think
about that scripture, today’s scripture,
doesn’t it indicate
that we have to expend
the power that is normal?
Jehovah gives the power beyond normal.
Why?
Why does Jehovah not give all the power?
Well, if you think about it,
if he gave us all the power
we needed to keep our integrity,
would that prove the Devil a liar?
Would that prove we  are integrity keepers?
No, it would just prove
that Jehovah has a lot of power.
But Satan would claim
that Jehovah is unfairly using his power
to give us a free ride
through our test and trials.
But when we do our part,
we do what is within our human limitations,
and then Jehovah steps in
and supplies the power beyond that.
Well, Satan can rightfully say nothing.
Now, here’s another question,
Why do we need
“the power beyond what is normal”
that Jehovah offers to us?
Well, it’s because of the tremendous power
of our three great enemies
—1 John 5:19:
“The whole world is lying
in the power of the wicked one.”
Now, you think of a power
that is capable of controlling
more than 7.6 billion people on earth today.
I mean, that’s some power of Satan.
Matthew 13:22 speaks
about “the deceptive power of riches.”
That’s just one of the powers
the world promotes.
Hebrews 3:13 talks
about “the deceptive power of sin,”
identifying the power of our imperfect flesh
to try to pull us into wrong conduct.
So we’ve got to have
this “power beyond what is normal”
to resist these tremendous power sources
that are against us.
But now think about this:
Just because a power source exists
does not mean you automatically benefit.
You have to tap into it.
For example, the wind has power;
a windmill taps into it.
Running water has tremendous power;
a hydroelectric power plant taps into it.
The sun has tremendous power;
solar panels tap into it.
Well, we have to tap into Jehovah.
And interestingly,
Jehovah provides guidelines
as to how we can tap into his power.
He also gives warnings as to what can impede
—you can even say block—
receiving power from him.
So with that being said, let’s identify
four contrasting examples
of what we’re going to call
power-from-Jehovah blockers
and power-from-Jehovah receivers.
Now, our first example, doubt and faith
—open up to James chapter 1
and notice what Jehovah tells us about doubt—
James 1:6:
“But let him keep asking in faith,
“not doubting at all,
“for the who doubts is like a wave of the sea
“driven by the wind and blown about.
“In fact, that man should not expect
to receive anything from Jehovah,”
and that “anything” includes power.
In contrast, at Matthew 17:20, Jesus said:
“If you have faith
the size of a mustard grain,
“you will say to this mountain,
“‘Move from here to there,’
“and it will move,
and nothing will be impossible for you.”
So with faith,
Jehovah gives us tremendous power
to accomplish amazing things,
and we have no valid reason, really,
to doubt Jehovah or his organization.
Now, let’s get our second example
of a power blocker and a power receiver
—discouragement and hoping in Jehovah.
Proverbs 24:10 says:
“If you become discouraged
in the day of distress,
your strength [or power] will be meager.”
So being overly discouraged can interfere
with our ability
to receive power from Jehovah.
But if we prayerfully throw
our burden on Jehovah,
if we rise above that situation,
if we put complete hope in Jehovah
that he is going to help us
and any problems we have
sooner or later will be eliminated,
then we can receive power.
Open up to Isaiah 40,
and here’s a scripture in this vein,
Isaiah 40:31:
“But those hoping in Jehovah
“will regain power.
“They will soar on wings like eagles.
“They will run and not grow weary;
they will walk and not tire out.”
Well, let’s move to our third example:
being double or halfhearted
and being wholehearted.
Figuratively, Psalms 12:2 and 119:113
talk about a “halfhearted”
and a doublehearted person.
And Jehovah hates them
according to the Bible:
doublehearted by trying
to serve two masters,
trying, for example,
to use the world to the full
but also be a servant of Jehovah.
A halfhearted person
lacks enthusiasm and zeal.
He’s lukewarm in his service.
Well, Jehovah indicates that such individuals
will receive no power from him.
But do you remember
what 2 Chronicles 16:9 says?
“For the eyes of Jehovah
are roving about through all the earth
“to show his strength [or power]
“in behalf of those whose heart
is complete toward him.”
Well, let’s get our last example:
bad conduct and sacred service.
Ephesians 4:25-29
encourages us
not to steal, not to be deceptive,
not to let ‘a rotten saying
come out of our mouth,’ and so forth.
And then interestingly,
the next verse, verse 30, says:
“Do not be grieving God’s holy spirit.”
So clearly, Jehovah is making it obvious
that any of that kind of conduct
grieves, restricts, limits
our ability to receive holy spirit,
which is one of the main ways
Jehovah provides power to us.
In contrast, Hebrews 4:12 says:
“The word of God is alive and exerts power.”
When we read it and meditate on it,
we get power.
Acts talks about how
the disciples supplicated,
and they received holy spirit.
It talks about how
they were all gathered together,
and they were “filled with holy spirit.”
Jesus said: “You will receive power
when the holy spirit comes upon you,
and you will be witnesses of me . . .
to the most distant part of the earth.”
So when we pray, we supplicate,
we read and meditate on God’s Word,
we meet together,
we witness about the Kingdom,
we receive power by means of the holy spirit.
So summing up our discussion,
if we (1) maintain strong faith
not doubting at all,
(2) resist discouragement
by hoping in Jehovah,
(3) refuse to develop a half or double heart
but keep a complete heart in serving Jehovah,
and (4) really work hard to avoid bad conduct
and zealously pursue sacred service,
then we will continue
to tap into Jehovah’s limitless power
beyond what is normal.
And despite the power of our great enemies,
we will triumph over them.
And you dear brothers and sisters
will make it into the new world
either by means of the overland passageway
through the great tribulation
—never die at all—
or by means of the underground tunnel,
the resurrection provision.